README.md, before:

# Signals Application

A modern, enterprise-grade signals processing and analysis application built with React, TypeScript, and Tailwind CSS. This application has been comprehensively refactored to demonstrate best practices in modern React development, accessibility, performance, and maintainability.

## 📍 Repository Information

- **GitHub Repository**: [https://github.com/belshi/signals](https://github.com/belshi/signals)
- **Clone URL**: `git@github.com:belshi/signals.git`
- **Main Branch**: `main`
- **License**: MIT

## 🚀 Features

### Core Functionality
- **Signals Management**: Comprehensive table interface with sorting, filtering, and CRUD operations
- **Brand Management**: Multi-tab interface for brand details, goals, and competitor tracking
- **Real-time Updates**: Live data synchronization with error handling and retry logic
- **Responsive Design**: Mobile-first design with adaptive layouts

### Advanced Features
- **Accessibility**: WCAG 2.1 AA compliant with full keyboard navigation and screen reader support
- **Error Handling**: Comprehensive error boundaries, retry mechanisms, and user-friendly error messages
- **Performance**: Optimized with lazy loading, memoization, and efficient rendering
- **Type Safety**: Full TypeScript coverage with branded types and strict validation
- **State Management**: Context-based state management with custom hooks
- **Utility Library**: 200+ utility functions for common operations

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

### Core Technologies
- **React 18** - Modern UI library with concurrent features
- **TypeScript** - Type safety and developer experience
- **Vite** - Fast build tool and development server
- **Tailwind CSS** - Utility-first CSS framework
- **React Router DOM** - Client-side routing
- **Heroicons** - Consistent, accessible iconography

### Development Tools
- **ESLint** - Code linting and quality assurance
- **TypeScript Compiler** - Type checking and compilation
- **Vite HMR** - Hot module replacement for development

## 📁 Project Structure

```
src/
├── components/              # Reusable UI components
│   ├── BrandDetails.tsx         # Brand information display
│   ├── BrandGoals.tsx           # Brand goals management
│   ├── Button.tsx               # Enhanced button component
│   ├── Card.tsx                 # Card layout component
│   ├── Competitors.tsx          # Competitor management
│   ├── DataTable.tsx            # Generic table component
│   ├── DetailRow.tsx            # Key-value display component
│   ├── EmptyState.tsx           # Empty state component
│   ├── ErrorBoundary.tsx        # React error boundary
│   ├── ErrorMessage.tsx         # Error message component
│   ├── ErrorToast.tsx           # Toast notifications
│   ├── Icon.tsx                 # Unified icon component (Heroicons)
│   ├── IconButton.tsx           # Icon-only button component
│   ├── LoadingSpinner.tsx       # Loading indicator
│   ├── MoreMenu.tsx             # Dropdown menu component
│   ├── Navbar.tsx               # Main navigation
│   ├── NetworkStatus.tsx        # Network connectivity monitor
│   ├── Page.tsx                 # Compound page component
│   ├── PageHeader.tsx           # Page header component
│   ├── SignalsTable.tsx         # Signals-specific table
│   └── StatusBadge.tsx          # Status indicator component
├── constants/               # Application constants
│   ├── icons.tsx                # Icon component re-exports
│   ├── mockData.ts              # Mock data for development
│   ├── navigation.ts             # Navigation configuration
│   ├── status.ts                 # Status configurations
│   └── index.ts                  # Central exports
├── contexts/                # React contexts
│   ├── BrandContext.tsx         # Brand data context
│   ├── ErrorContext.tsx         # Global error handling
│   ├── LayoutContext.tsx        # Layout state context
│   ├── SignalsContext.tsx       # Signals data context
│   └── index.ts                 # Central exports
├── hooks/                   # Custom React hooks
│   ├── useAccessibility.ts      # Accessibility utilities
│   ├── useAsyncOperation.ts     # Async operation handling
│   ├── useBrand.ts              # Brand data management
│   ├── useErrorHandler.ts       # Error handling utilities
│   ├── useFocusManagement.ts    # Focus management
│   ├── useKeyboardNavigation.ts # Keyboard navigation
│   ├── useNavigation.ts         # Navigation utilities
│   ├── usePageData.ts           # Page data management
│   ├── useRetry.ts              # Retry logic with backoff
│   ├── useSignals.ts            # Signals data management
│   ├── useStatusBadge.ts        # Status badge logic
│   └── index.ts                 # Central exports
├── pages/                   # Page components
│   ├── BrandPage.tsx            # Brand management page
│   └── SignalsPage.tsx          # Signals management page
├── types/                   # TypeScript definitions
│   ├── enhanced.ts              # Enhanced type definitions
│   ├── index.ts                 # Type exports
│   └── typeGuards.ts            # Runtime type validation
├── utils/                   # Utility functions
│   ├── apiUtils.ts              # HTTP client utilities
│   ├── arrayUtils.ts            # Array manipulation
│   ├── dateUtils.ts             # Date operations
│   ├── domUtils.ts              # DOM manipulation
│   ├── formatUtils.ts           # Data formatting
│   ├── objectUtils.ts           # Object manipulation
│   ├── performanceUtils.ts      # Performance optimization
│   ├── storageUtils.ts          # Storage management
│   ├── stringUtils.ts           # String operations
│   ├── typeGuards.ts            # Type validation
│   ├── typeUtils.ts             # Type utilities
│   ├── validationUtils.ts       # Data validation
│   └── index.ts                 # Central exports
├── App.tsx                  # Main application component
├── index.css                # Global styles
└── main.tsx                 # Application entry point
```

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- **Node.js** (v18 or higher)
- **npm** (v8 or higher) or **yarn** (v1.22 or higher)

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone git@github.com:belshi/signals.git
   cd signals
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Start the development server**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

4. **Open your browser**
   Navigate to `http://localhost:5173`

### Available Scripts

- `npm run dev` - Start development server with HMR
- `npm run build` - Build for production
- `npm run preview` - Preview production build
- `npm run lint` - Run ESLint for code quality

## 🎯 Key Features

### 1. Accessibility (WCAG 2.1 AA Compliant)
- **Keyboard Navigation**: Full keyboard support with arrow keys, Enter, Space, Tab, Escape
- **Screen Reader Support**: Comprehensive ARIA attributes and semantic HTML
- **Focus Management**: Focus trapping, restoration, and visible indicators
- **User Preferences**: Reduced motion, high contrast, font size options
- **Mobile Accessibility**: Touch-friendly elements and responsive design

### 2. Error Handling & Resilience
- **Error Boundaries**: React error boundaries at app and page levels
- **Retry Logic**: Exponential backoff for failed operations
- **Network Monitoring**: Real-time network status detection
- **User Feedback**: Toast notifications and error messages
- **Graceful Degradation**: Fallback UI for error states

### 3. Performance Optimization
- **Lazy Loading**: Component and route-based code splitting
- **Memoization**: React.memo and useMemo for expensive operations
- **Debouncing/Throttling**: Optimized event handling
- **Virtual Scrolling**: Efficient rendering of large lists
- **Bundle Optimization**: Tree shaking and dead code elimination

### 4. Type Safety
- **Branded Types**: Type-safe IDs and identifiers
- **Runtime Validation**: Type guards for data validation
- **Strict TypeScript**: No implicit any, strict null checks
- **Generic Utilities**: Reusable type-safe functions
- **API Types**: Comprehensive API response typing

### 5. State Management
- **Context API**: Global and page-specific state management
- **Custom Hooks**: Encapsulated business logic
- **Compound Components**: Flexible component composition
- **Render Props**: Flexible data composition patterns
- **Higher-Order Components**: Cross-cutting concerns

## 📱 Pages & Components

### Signals Page
- **Data Table**: Sortable, filterable table with accessibility features
- **CRUD Operations**: Create, read, update, delete signals
- **Status Management**: Visual status indicators with color coding
- **Responsive Design**: Mobile-optimized table layout
- **Loading States**: Skeleton loading and error handling

### Brand Page
- **Tabbed Interface**: Three-tab layout (Details, Goals, Competitors)
- **Form Management**: Comprehensive form handling with validation
- **Data Persistence**: Local storage with sync capabilities
- **Accessibility**: Full keyboard navigation and screen reader support

## 🎨 Design System

### Components
- **Button**: Full ARIA support with loading states
- **DataTable**: Sortable table with keyboard navigation
- **Icon**: Unified Heroicons component with type safety
- **IconButton**: Icon-only buttons with same API as Button
- **StatusBadge**: Color-coded status indicators
- **LoadingSpinner**: Consistent loading indicators
- **ErrorMessage**: User-friendly error displays
- **MoreMenu**: Accessible dropdown menu component

### Styling
- **Tailwind CSS**: Utility-first styling approach
- **Responsive Design**: Mobile-first breakpoints
- **Dark Mode Ready**: CSS custom properties for theming
- **Accessibility**: High contrast and focus indicators
- **Consistency**: Design tokens and standardized spacing

### Icon System
- **Heroicons Integration**: Modern, consistent iconography
- **Type-Safe Icons**: TypeScript validation for icon names
- **Unified Component**: Single `Icon` component for all icons
- **Accessibility**: Built-in ARIA support and screen reader compatibility
- **Consistent Sizing**: Predefined size options (sm, md, lg, xl)
- **Performance**: Tree-shakeable icons with optimized bundle size

#### Available Icons
- `plus` - PlusIcon
- `building` - BuildingOfficeIcon  
- `target` - CheckCircleIcon
- `users` - UsersIcon
- `more-vertical` - EllipsisVerticalIcon
- `edit` - PencilIcon
- `trash` - TrashIcon

#### Usage Example
```tsx
import { Icon, IconButton } from '../components';

// Basic icon usage
<Icon name="plus" />

// With sizing and styling
<Icon name="building" size="lg" className="text-indigo-600" />

// IconButton usage
<IconButton 
  icon="plus" 
  ariaLabel="Add item" 
  onClick={handleAdd} 
/>

// With variant and size
<IconButton 
  icon="edit" 
  variant="secondary" 
  size="lg" 
  ariaLabel="Edit item" 
  onClick={handleEdit} 
/>
```

## 🔧 Utility Library

### 200+ Utility Functions Across 10 Categories

1. **String Utilities**: Text transformation, validation, formatting
2. **Array Utilities**: Manipulation, filtering, mathematical operations
3. **Object Utilities**: Deep cloning, merging, property access
4. **Validation Utilities**: Data validation with comprehensive rules
5. **Date Utilities**: Date manipulation, formatting, comparison
6. **Format Utilities**: Number, currency, file size formatting
7. **Storage Utilities**: localStorage, sessionStorage, cookies, IndexedDB
8. **API Utilities**: HTTP client with interceptors and retry logic
9. **Performance Utilities**: Debouncing, throttling, memoization
10. **DOM Utilities**: Element manipulation, event handling, traversal

## 🧪 Development Guidelines

### Code Quality
- **TypeScript**: Strict type checking enabled
- **ESLint**: Comprehensive linting rules
- **Prettier**: Consistent code formatting
- **Git Hooks**: Pre-commit validation
- **Testing**: Unit and integration test coverage

### Unused Code Prevention (CRITICAL)
- **NEVER** create components, hooks, or utilities "just in case" - only build what you need
- **ALWAYS** verify usage before adding exports to index.ts files
- **REGULARLY** audit the codebase for unused code (monthly)
- **IMMEDIATELY** remove any code that becomes unused
- **VALIDATE** that all exports are actually imported and used
- **AVOID** creating large utility libraries - prefer specific, targeted utilities
- **DELETE** deprecated code instead of marking it as deprecated
- **ENFORCE** the principle: "If it's not used, it shouldn't exist"
- **USE** tools like `ts-unused-exports` to detect unused exports
- **REVIEW** all PRs for unused code additions

### Best Practices
- **Component Design**: Single responsibility, composition over inheritance
- **State Management**: Minimal state, derived state, context patterns
- **Performance**: Lazy loading, memoization, efficient rendering
- **Accessibility**: WCAG compliance, semantic HTML, ARIA attributes
- **Error Handling**: Graceful degradation, user feedback, logging

### Architecture Patterns
- **Compound Components**: Flexible component composition
- **Render Props**: Flexible data composition
- **Higher-Order Components**: Cross-cutting concerns
- **Custom Hooks**: Encapsulated business logic
- **Context API**: Global state management

## 🔒 Security Considerations

- **Input Validation**: Client and server-side validation
- **XSS Prevention**: Proper data sanitization
- **CSRF Protection**: Token-based protection
- **Content Security Policy**: Strict CSP headers
- **Dependency Security**: Regular security audits

## 📊 Performance Metrics

- **Bundle Size**: Optimized with tree shaking and code splitting
- **Load Time**: < 2s initial load time
- **Runtime Performance**: 60fps animations and interactions
- **Accessibility Score**: 100% Lighthouse accessibility score
- **SEO Score**: 95+ Lighthouse SEO score

## 🤝 Contributing

### Development Workflow
1. **Fork the repository** on GitHub
2. **Clone your fork** locally:
   ```bash
   git clone git@github.com:YOUR_USERNAME/signals.git
   cd signals
   ```
3. **Add upstream remote**:
   ```bash
   git remote add upstream git@github.com:belshi/signals.git
   ```
4. **Create a feature branch**:
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name
   ```
5. **Make changes** with proper testing and accessibility compliance
6. **Commit your changes**:
   ```bash
   git add .
   git commit -m "feat: add your feature description"
   ```
7. **Push to your fork**:
   ```bash
   git push origin feature/your-feature-name
   ```
8. **Submit a pull request** on GitHub

### GitHub Repository Management
- **Issues**: Use GitHub Issues for bug reports and feature requests
- **Pull Requests**: All changes must go through pull request review
- **Branch Protection**: Main branch is protected, requires PR reviews
- **CI/CD**: Automated testing and deployment on push/PR

### Code Standards
- Follow TypeScript best practices
- Maintain accessibility standards
- Write comprehensive tests
- Document new features
- Follow the established patterns
- **ZERO TOLERANCE** for unused code - all code must be actively used
- **MONTHLY AUDITS** required to identify and remove unused code
- **PR REVIEWS** must verify no unused code is being added
- **UTILITY LIBRARIES** must be minimal and only contain used functions

## 🧹 Code Cleanup & Maintenance

### Recent Cleanup (2024)
This codebase underwent a comprehensive unused code audit and cleanup:

**Removed Unused Components:**
- `AsyncBoundary` - Never imported or used
- `AsyncErrorBoundary` - Never imported or used  
- `DataProvider` - Never imported or used
- `Modal` - Never imported or used
- `Tabs` - Never imported or used
- `ErrorFallback` - Never imported or used
- `withPageData` - Never imported or used

**Removed Unused Hooks:**
- `useAsyncOperation` - Never imported or used
- `useErrorContext` - Never imported or used
- `useGlobalError` - Never imported or used

**Cleaned Up Utility Library:**
- Removed ~200 unused utility functions
- Kept only the 3-4 actually used utilities
- Reduced bundle size by ~60-70%

**Removed Deprecated Types:**
- All deprecated interfaces in `src/types/index.ts`

### Ongoing Maintenance
- Monthly unused code audits
- PR reviews must verify no unused code
- Zero tolerance policy for unused code
- Regular bundle size monitoring

## 📋 TODO - Future Improvements

### High Priority
- [ ] **Modal Component Optimization**: Reduce size of `AddBrandModal` and `AddSignalModal` components
  - Extract form constants and data to separate files
  - Create reusable `FormField` component for consistent form handling
  - Implement `useForm` hook for form state management
  - Simplify component structure and reduce inline code
  - Apply standardized component structure to modal components

### Medium Priority
- [ ] **Complete Component Standardization**: Apply standardized structure to remaining components
  - `Navbar`, `Page`, `PageHeader` - Layout components
  - `SignalsTable`, `BrandDetails` - Data display components
  - `AddBrandModal`, `AddSignalModal` - Form modal components (after optimization)
  - `AIInsights`, `AIRecommendations` - Feature-specific components

### Low Priority
- [ ] **Performance Monitoring**: Implement performance monitoring and metrics
- [ ] **Testing Coverage**: Add comprehensive test coverage for all components
- [ ] **Documentation**: Create component usage documentation and examples

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- React team for the excellent framework
- TypeScript team for type safety
- Tailwind CSS for the utility-first approach
- Accessibility community for best practices
- Open source contributors for inspiration

---

**Built with ❤️ using modern web technologies and accessibility best practices.**

Commit message:

feat: enable Supabase integration for local development
- Update Supabase Database types to match live schema (BIGINT IDs)
- Align services to use existing column names (employees, insights, recommendations)
- Add Supabase setup instructions to README
- Create RLS policies for development access
- Add sample data SQL for testing
- Support switching from mock data to live Supabase via env vars

README.md, after:

# Signals Application

A modern, enterprise-grade signals processing and analysis application built with React, TypeScript, and Tailwind CSS. This application has been comprehensively refactored to demonstrate best practices in modern React development, accessibility, performance, and maintainability.

## 📍 Repository Information

- **GitHub Repository**: [https://github.com/belshi/signals](https://github.com/belshi/signals)
- **Clone URL**: `git@github.com:belshi/signals.git`
- **Main Branch**: `main`
- **License**: MIT

## 🚀 Features

### Core Functionality
- **Signals Management**: Comprehensive table interface with sorting, filtering, and CRUD operations
- **Brand Management**: Multi-tab interface for brand details, goals, and competitor tracking
- **Real-time Updates**: Live data synchronization with error handling and retry logic
- **Responsive Design**: Mobile-first design with adaptive layouts

### Advanced Features
- **Accessibility**: WCAG 2.1 AA compliant with full keyboard navigation and screen reader support
- **Error Handling**: Comprehensive error boundaries, retry mechanisms, and user-friendly error messages
- **Performance**: Optimized with lazy loading, memoization, and efficient rendering
- **Type Safety**: Full TypeScript coverage with branded types and strict validation
- **State Management**: Context-based state management with custom hooks
- **Utility Library**: 200+ utility functions for common operations

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

### Core Technologies
- **React 18** - Modern UI library with concurrent features
- **TypeScript** - Type safety and developer experience
- **Vite** - Fast build tool and development server
- **Tailwind CSS** - Utility-first CSS framework
- **React Router DOM** - Client-side routing
- **Heroicons** - Consistent, accessible iconography

### Development Tools
- **ESLint** - Code linting and quality assurance
- **TypeScript Compiler** - Type checking and compilation
- **Vite HMR** - Hot module replacement for development

## 📁 Project Structure

```
src/
├── components/              # Reusable UI components
│   ├── BrandDetails.tsx         # Brand information display
│   ├── BrandGoals.tsx           # Brand goals management
│   ├── Button.tsx               # Enhanced button component
│   ├── Card.tsx                 # Card layout component
│   ├── Competitors.tsx          # Competitor management
│   ├── DataTable.tsx            # Generic table component
│   ├── DetailRow.tsx            # Key-value display component
│   ├── EmptyState.tsx           # Empty state component
│   ├── ErrorBoundary.tsx        # React error boundary
│   ├── ErrorMessage.tsx         # Error message component
│   ├── ErrorToast.tsx           # Toast notifications
│   ├── Icon.tsx                 # Unified icon component (Heroicons)
│   ├── IconButton.tsx           # Icon-only button component
│   ├── LoadingSpinner.tsx       # Loading indicator
│   ├── MoreMenu.tsx             # Dropdown menu component
│   ├── Navbar.tsx               # Main navigation
│   ├── NetworkStatus.tsx        # Network connectivity monitor
│   ├── Page.tsx                 # Compound page component
│   ├── PageHeader.tsx           # Page header component
│   ├── SignalsTable.tsx         # Signals-specific table
│   └── StatusBadge.tsx          # Status indicator component
├── constants/               # Application constants
│   ├── icons.tsx                # Icon component re-exports
│   ├── mockData.ts              # Mock data for development
│   ├── navigation.ts             # Navigation configuration
│   ├── status.ts                 # Status configurations
│   └── index.ts                  # Central exports
├── contexts/                # React contexts
│   ├── BrandContext.tsx         # Brand data context
│   ├── ErrorContext.tsx         # Global error handling
│   ├── LayoutContext.tsx        # Layout state context
│   ├── SignalsContext.tsx       # Signals data context
│   └── index.ts                 # Central exports
├── hooks/                   # Custom React hooks
│   ├── useAccessibility.ts      # Accessibility utilities
│   ├── useAsyncOperation.ts     # Async operation handling
│   ├── useBrand.ts              # Brand data management
│   ├── useErrorHandler.ts       # Error handling utilities
│   ├── useFocusManagement.ts    # Focus management
│   ├── useKeyboardNavigation.ts # Keyboard navigation
│   ├── useNavigation.ts         # Navigation utilities
│   ├── usePageData.ts           # Page data management
│   ├── useRetry.ts              # Retry logic with backoff
│   ├── useSignals.ts            # Signals data management
│   ├── useStatusBadge.ts        # Status badge logic
│   └── index.ts                 # Central exports
├── pages/                   # Page components
│   ├── BrandPage.tsx            # Brand management page
│   └── SignalsPage.tsx          # Signals management page
├── types/                   # TypeScript definitions
│   ├── enhanced.ts              # Enhanced type definitions
│   ├── index.ts                 # Type exports
│   └── typeGuards.ts            # Runtime type validation
├── utils/                   # Utility functions
│   ├── apiUtils.ts              # HTTP client utilities
│   ├── arrayUtils.ts            # Array manipulation
│   ├── dateUtils.ts             # Date operations
│   ├── domUtils.ts              # DOM manipulation
│   ├── formatUtils.ts           # Data formatting
│   ├── objectUtils.ts           # Object manipulation
│   ├── performanceUtils.ts      # Performance optimization
│   ├── storageUtils.ts          # Storage management
│   ├── stringUtils.ts           # String operations
│   ├── typeGuards.ts            # Type validation
│   ├── typeUtils.ts             # Type utilities
│   ├── validationUtils.ts       # Data validation
│   └── index.ts                 # Central exports
├── App.tsx                  # Main application component
├── index.css                # Global styles
└── main.tsx                 # Application entry point
```

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- **Node.js** (v18 or higher)
- **npm** (v8 or higher) or **yarn** (v1.22 or higher)

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone git@github.com:belshi/signals.git
   cd signals
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Start the development server**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

4. **Open your browser**
   Navigate to `http://localhost:5173`

### Configure Supabase (optional for real data)

By default, the app uses mock data. To connect to Supabase in local dev:

1. Create a `.env.local` in the project root with:
   ```bash
   VITE_SUPABASE_URL=your-supabase-project-url
   VITE_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your-supabase-anon-key
   ```
2. In your Supabase project, open the SQL editor and run `supabase-schema.sql` from the repo to create tables and policies.
3. Ensure RLS policies allow your anon key to read/write during development.
4. Restart the dev server. The app will detect Supabase and switch off mock data automatically.

### Available Scripts

- `npm run dev` - Start development server with HMR
- `npm run build` - Build for production
- `npm run preview` - Preview production build
- `npm run lint` - Run ESLint for code quality

## 🎯 Key Features

### 1. Accessibility (WCAG 2.1 AA Compliant)
- **Keyboard Navigation**: Full keyboard support with arrow keys, Enter, Space, Tab, Escape
- **Screen Reader Support**: Comprehensive ARIA attributes and semantic HTML
- **Focus Management**: Focus trapping, restoration, and visible indicators
- **User Preferences**: Reduced motion, high contrast, font size options
- **Mobile Accessibility**: Touch-friendly elements and responsive design

### 2. Error Handling & Resilience
- **Error Boundaries**: React error boundaries at app and page levels
- **Retry Logic**: Exponential backoff for failed operations
- **Network Monitoring**: Real-time network status detection
- **User Feedback**: Toast notifications and error messages
- **Graceful Degradation**: Fallback UI for error states

### 3. Performance Optimization
- **Lazy Loading**: Component and route-based code splitting
- **Memoization**: React.memo and useMemo for expensive operations
- **Debouncing/Throttling**: Optimized event handling
- **Virtual Scrolling**: Efficient rendering of large lists
- **Bundle Optimization**: Tree shaking and dead code elimination

### 4. Type Safety
- **Branded Types**: Type-safe IDs and identifiers
- **Runtime Validation**: Type guards for data validation
- **Strict TypeScript**: No implicit any, strict null checks
- **Generic Utilities**: Reusable type-safe functions
- **API Types**: Comprehensive API response typing

### 5. State Management
- **Context API**: Global and page-specific state management
- **Custom Hooks**: Encapsulated business logic
- **Compound Components**: Flexible component composition
- **Render Props**: Flexible data composition patterns
- **Higher-Order Components**: Cross-cutting concerns

## 📱 Pages & Components

### Signals Page
- **Data Table**: Sortable, filterable table with accessibility features
- **CRUD Operations**: Create, read, update, delete signals
- **Status Management**: Visual status indicators with color coding
- **Responsive Design**: Mobile-optimized table layout
- **Loading States**: Skeleton loading and error handling

### Brand Page
- **Tabbed Interface**: Three-tab layout (Details, Goals, Competitors)
- **Form Management**: Comprehensive form handling with validation
- **Data Persistence**: Local storage with sync capabilities
- **Accessibility**: Full keyboard navigation and screen reader support

## 🎨 Design System

### Components
- **Button**: Full ARIA support with loading states
- **DataTable**: Sortable table with keyboard navigation
- **Icon**: Unified Heroicons component with type safety
- **IconButton**: Icon-only buttons with same API as Button
- **StatusBadge**: Color-coded status indicators
- **LoadingSpinner**: Consistent loading indicators
- **ErrorMessage**: User-friendly error displays
- **MoreMenu**: Accessible dropdown menu component

### Styling
- **Tailwind CSS**: Utility-first styling approach
- **Responsive Design**: Mobile-first breakpoints
- **Dark Mode Ready**: CSS custom properties for theming
- **Accessibility**: High contrast and focus indicators
- **Consistency**: Design tokens and standardized spacing

### Icon System
- **Heroicons Integration**: Modern, consistent iconography
- **Type-Safe Icons**: TypeScript validation for icon names
- **Unified Component**: Single `Icon` component for all icons
- **Accessibility**: Built-in ARIA support and screen reader compatibility
- **Consistent Sizing**: Predefined size options (sm, md, lg, xl)
- **Performance**: Tree-shakeable icons with optimized bundle size

#### Available Icons
- `plus` - PlusIcon
- `building` - BuildingOfficeIcon  
- `target` - CheckCircleIcon
- `users` - UsersIcon
- `more-vertical` - EllipsisVerticalIcon
- `edit` - PencilIcon
- `trash` - TrashIcon

#### Usage Example
```tsx
import { Icon, IconButton } from '../components';

// Basic icon usage
<Icon name="plus" />

// With sizing and styling
<Icon name="building" size="lg" className="text-indigo-600" />

// IconButton usage
<IconButton 
  icon="plus" 
  ariaLabel="Add item" 
  onClick={handleAdd} 
/>

// With variant and size
<IconButton 
  icon="edit" 
  variant="secondary" 
  size="lg" 
  ariaLabel="Edit item" 
  onClick={handleEdit} 
/>
```

## 🔧 Utility Library

### 200+ Utility Functions Across 10 Categories

1. **String Utilities**: Text transformation, validation, formatting
2. **Array Utilities**: Manipulation, filtering, mathematical operations
3. **Object Utilities**: Deep cloning, merging, property access
4. **Validation Utilities**: Data validation with comprehensive rules
5. **Date Utilities**: Date manipulation, formatting, comparison
6. **Format Utilities**: Number, currency, file size formatting
7. **Storage Utilities**: localStorage, sessionStorage, cookies, IndexedDB
8. **API Utilities**: HTTP client with interceptors and retry logic
9. **Performance Utilities**: Debouncing, throttling, memoization
10. **DOM Utilities**: Element manipulation, event handling, traversal

## 🧪 Development Guidelines

### Code Quality
- **TypeScript**: Strict type checking enabled
- **ESLint**: Comprehensive linting rules
- **Prettier**: Consistent code formatting
- **Git Hooks**: Pre-commit validation
- **Testing**: Unit and integration test coverage

### Unused Code Prevention (CRITICAL)
- **NEVER** create components, hooks, or utilities "just in case" - only build what you need
- **ALWAYS** verify usage before adding exports to index.ts files
- **REGULARLY** audit the codebase for unused code (monthly)
- **IMMEDIATELY** remove any code that becomes unused
- **VALIDATE** that all exports are actually imported and used
- **AVOID** creating large utility libraries - prefer specific, targeted utilities
- **DELETE** deprecated code instead of marking it as deprecated
- **ENFORCE** the principle: "If it's not used, it shouldn't exist"
- **USE** tools like `ts-unused-exports` to detect unused exports
- **REVIEW** all PRs for unused code additions

### Best Practices
- **Component Design**: Single responsibility, composition over inheritance
- **State Management**: Minimal state, derived state, context patterns
- **Performance**: Lazy loading, memoization, efficient rendering
- **Accessibility**: WCAG compliance, semantic HTML, ARIA attributes
- **Error Handling**: Graceful degradation, user feedback, logging

### Architecture Patterns
- **Compound Components**: Flexible component composition
- **Render Props**: Flexible data composition
- **Higher-Order Components**: Cross-cutting concerns
- **Custom Hooks**: Encapsulated business logic
- **Context API**: Global state management

## 🔒 Security Considerations

- **Input Validation**: Client and server-side validation
- **XSS Prevention**: Proper data sanitization
- **CSRF Protection**: Token-based protection
- **Content Security Policy**: Strict CSP headers
- **Dependency Security**: Regular security audits

## 📊 Performance Metrics

- **Bundle Size**: Optimized with tree shaking and code splitting
- **Load Time**: < 2s initial load time
- **Runtime Performance**: 60fps animations and interactions
- **Accessibility Score**: 100% Lighthouse accessibility score
- **SEO Score**: 95+ Lighthouse SEO score

## 🤝 Contributing

### Development Workflow
1. **Fork the repository** on GitHub
2. **Clone your fork** locally:
   ```bash
   git clone git@github.com:YOUR_USERNAME/signals.git
   cd signals
   ```
3. **Add upstream remote**:
   ```bash
   git remote add upstream git@github.com:belshi/signals.git
   ```
4. **Create a feature branch**:
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name
   ```
5. **Make changes** with proper testing and accessibility compliance
6. **Commit your changes**:
   ```bash
   git add .
   git commit -m "feat: add your feature description"
   ```
7. **Push to your fork**:
   ```bash
   git push origin feature/your-feature-name
   ```
8. **Submit a pull request** on GitHub

### GitHub Repository Management
- **Issues**: Use GitHub Issues for bug reports and feature requests
- **Pull Requests**: All changes must go through pull request review
- **Branch Protection**: Main branch is protected, requires PR reviews
- **CI/CD**: Automated testing and deployment on push/PR

### Code Standards
- Follow TypeScript best practices
- Maintain accessibility standards
- Write comprehensive tests
- Document new features
- Follow the established patterns
- **ZERO TOLERANCE** for unused code - all code must be actively used
- **MONTHLY AUDITS** required to identify and remove unused code
- **PR REVIEWS** must verify no unused code is being added
- **UTILITY LIBRARIES** must be minimal and only contain used functions

## 🧹 Code Cleanup & Maintenance

### Recent Cleanup (2024)
This codebase underwent a comprehensive unused code audit and cleanup:

**Removed Unused Components:**
- `AsyncBoundary` - Never imported or used
- `AsyncErrorBoundary` - Never imported or used  
- `DataProvider` - Never imported or used
- `Modal` - Never imported or used
- `Tabs` - Never imported or used
- `ErrorFallback` - Never imported or used
- `withPageData` - Never imported or used

**Removed Unused Hooks:**
- `useAsyncOperation` - Never imported or used
- `useErrorContext` - Never imported or used
- `useGlobalError` - Never imported or used

**Cleaned Up Utility Library:**
- Removed ~200 unused utility functions
- Kept only the 3-4 actually used utilities
- Reduced bundle size by ~60-70%

**Removed Deprecated Types:**
- All deprecated interfaces in `src/types/index.ts`

### Ongoing Maintenance
- Monthly unused code audits
- PR reviews must verify no unused code
- Zero tolerance policy for unused code
- Regular bundle size monitoring

## 📋 TODO - Future Improvements

### High Priority
- [ ] **Modal Component Optimization**: Reduce size of `AddBrandModal` and `AddSignalModal` components
  - Extract form constants and data to separate files
  - Create reusable `FormField` component for consistent form handling
  - Implement `useForm` hook for form state management
  - Simplify component structure and reduce inline code
  - Apply standardized component structure to modal components

### Medium Priority
- [ ] **Complete Component Standardization**: Apply standardized structure to remaining components
  - `Navbar`, `Page`, `PageHeader` - Layout components
  - `SignalsTable`, `BrandDetails` - Data display components
  - `AddBrandModal`, `AddSignalModal` - Form modal components (after optimization)
  - `AIInsights`, `AIRecommendations` - Feature-specific components

### Low Priority
- [ ] **Performance Monitoring**: Implement performance monitoring and metrics
- [ ] **Testing Coverage**: Add comprehensive test coverage for all components
- [ ] **Documentation**: Create component usage documentation and examples

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- React team for the excellent framework
- TypeScript team for type safety
- Tailwind CSS for the utility-first approach
- Accessibility community for best practices
- Open source contributors for inspiration

---

**Built with ❤️ using modern web technologies and accessibility best practices.**
